---
layout: post
title: FPS Roguelikes
---

I have been thinking about this genre connection for a while, apparently way too long, because there are a bunch that are out or coming out real soon. I am using a pretty open definition of roguelike here, so if it has randomized levels, or perma death, then it qualifies. Basically it just needs one or two of the high value factors from "the Berlin Interpretation":http://roguebasin.roguelikedevelopment.org/index.php?title=Berlin_Interpretation to make it here. People only accepting ADOM need not apply.
Now, a list:

"Paranautical Activity":http://codeavarice.com/ currently available
"Rogue Shooter":http://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=170551729
"Fancy Skulls":http://www.fancyskulls.com/ alpha available
"Heavy Bullets":http://www.heavybullets.com/ pre-alpha available
"Tower of Guns":http://www.towerofguns.com/ available
"Eldritch":http://www.eldritchgame.com/ available
"Discoverie":http://7dfps.com/?action=games&id=45 7dfps version, available
"Receiver":http://www.wolfire.com/receiver available
"Sir, You Are Being Hunted":http://www.big-robot.com/tag/sir-you-are-being-hunted/ available
"Taquito Tower":http://www.freeindiegam.es/2013/08/taquito-tower-magdev/ available
"Dead Squared":http://www.indiedb.com/games/dead-squared alpha available
"Hellgate London":http://hellgate.t3fun.com/home/home.aspx available since 2007, now f2p
"Moraff's World":http://emptysqua.re/blog/moraffs-world/ available, eye of the beholder style. It seems like moraff made a number of games in this style.
"Disco Fear":http://forums.tigsource.com/index.php?topic=33179.0 not yet available, not sure of that name.
"Illuminascii":http://7dfps.com/?action=games&id=89 7dfps version, "ongoing development":http://depressingdrawers.tumblr.com/
"Boarding Party":http://7dfps.com/?action=games&id=228 7dfps version
"Delver":http://www.delvergame.com/ available
"Death Smashers":http://7dfps.com/?action=games&id=289 7dfps version, seems to be "in onging dev":www.broforcegame.com/DeathSmashers/
"The Aurora Wager":http://7drl.org/2013/03/17/the-aurora-wage-success/ 7dfps version
"Bob's Dragon Hunt":http://www.mobygames.com/game/dos/bobs-dragon-hunt/screenshots/gameShotId,182640/ available
"7DRL":http://games.nagademo.com/games/11/ 7dfps version, availble
"procedural FPS":http://www.mapcore.org/topic/14396-procedural-fps/page-24 this project seems to have stalled
"spire":http://hitboxteam.com/mystery-and-mastery not yet available

I am going to try to livestream plays through some of these. I suspect that I am missing a bunch from the 7dfps this year, so will need to dig through those more. Also if you know of any others, let me know, so that I can play those as well.